---
title: 'Programming AVRs With Nim'
date: '2024-02-10T07:19:23+01:00'
author: 'Giancarlo Rizzo'
draft: false
categories: [nim, avr]
color: '#ffcc66'
---

# Prologue

I wanted to dive deeper into embdedded-programming after a long time, but I'm really unlucky about the readability of _c_ and _rust_ and so I searched for an alternative. Because the [nim-languange](https://nim-lang.org/) catched me I wanted to try programming an avr with it. My main wish was an easy and effective entry into hardware projects.

Unfortunatly easy entries to low-level-programming isn't really common. Actually there are some projects at github, providing some ability to programm an arduino in nim or providing some custom hardware-description-files for nim, but they are specified for only a few microcontrollers.

If you are interested in them check out: [embeddedNim](https://github.com/EmbeddedNim).

Anyway, it wasnt the right solution for me, so I had the Idea to translate the _.atdf-files_ automatically into _.nim-files._ I could find only a solution to translate _.svd-files_ directly to _.nim-files_, and another solution to translate _.atdf-files_ directly to _.svd-files_.

So why not just combine them?

# About Hardware Description Files

The mentioned _.atdf-files_ and _.svd-files_ are autogenerated descriptions of the chip-design of a microcontroller. For example _.atdf-files_ are generated by Microchip-technologies for AVR-Microcontrollers whereas _.svd-files_ are generated by STMicroelectronics for STM-devices. You can get the sources for your device from the [microchip-packs-repository](http://packs.download.atmel.com/).

# Just download & include them

If you just want to download ready-to-use avr-description-files for nim download them directly from my github-repo [avr-descriptionfiles-4-nim](https://github.com/protogia/avr-descriptionfiles-4-nim). It contains sources for the AVR-family `Microchip ATmega Series Device Support (3.1.264)` but you can feel free to add further conversions for example for the ATtiny-family using the converter-scripts like written in the description.
